Israel's defense minister says the
country is opening a new phase in the
war and the center of gravity is
Shifting to the north his warning came
hours after a second wave of blasts
swept across Lebanon exploding
walkie-talkies left at least 20 dead and
more than 450 injured yesterday hundreds
maybe thousands of electronic Pages used
by the armed group Hezbollah detonated
simultaneously killing at least 12 and
leaving more than 3,000 in hospital
tonight our security correspondent
Gordon Carrera looks at this new form of
technological Warfare I'll be talking to
our International editor Jeremy Bowen
amid grave fears this is about to
escalate across the Middle East today a
division of the Israeli Army has
relocated from Gaza to the North of
Israel reinforcing troops there well
let's go straight to Beirut now our
senior International correspondent Ola
garan is there
Ola so Sophie tonight we are in New
Territory this is a new phase of the war
Israel says so Hezbollah which is last
as a terrorist organization by the UK
and the US is also saying the same here
on the streets today in Beirut in the
Hezbollah stronghold of dahia we saw
fear and chaos and panic when reports
started coming in of a second wave of
explosions casualties were being rushed
away for treatment one young member of
Hezbollah said this is is a terrible
time for us we have never seen anything
like it we are encouraging our
supporters to get off the streets to go
home to try to stay safe now in the past
24 hours hezbollah's communication
networks have been Shattered by Israel
but it would be a mistake to say that
the organization is defeated far from it
it's promising revenge and we expect to
hear more about that tomorrow in a
speech by its leader Hassan Nala
Hezbollah coming to bury its dead in
South Beirut
today casualties of a new chapter in
Middle East Warfare killed not by air
strikes but by exploding pagers
apparently a message from
mosad among the dead an 11-year-old
boy but even the mourners weren't safe
suddenly the sound of another
blast chaos and panic filling the street
and a rush to evacuate one of the
Wounded the authorities say this time
walkie-talkies exploded not just in
Beirut here at a cell phone shop in the
southern city of
sidon Israel is being blamed for the
past 24 hours of unpr precedented
attacks well one more ambulance there
passing by we've been seeing them in the
last half an hour or so also fire
brigade trucks people have been looking
at the sky worried there are drones
they're beginning to leave the area to
get off the
streets the attacks began yesterday
afternoon with explosion ions in food
markets in homes in restaurants soon
casualties were streaming to hospitals
almost 3,000 wounded in an hour doctors
say many lost fingers and many were
blinded it has been a nightmare probably
this is the worst day of my life as a
physician unfortunately we were not able
to save a lot of eyes um I can tell you
that probably more than 60 to 70% of the
patients and ended up with with
eviscerating or removing at least one of
their eyes and we're talking about young
population about patients in their
20s from Israel no admission of
responsibility but the defense minister
yav Galant says a new phase of the war
is
starting Hezbollah which is Iranian
backed has been Waging War with Israel
since last October the two sides trade
in fire across their shared border over
the past 24 hours Hezbollah has been
shaken and humiliated but it's still
better armed than many
nations Israel too has plenty of
Firepower and today released this
footage of its troops training near the
Lebanese border A source told the BBC
that a second division of the army has
moved to the area there are growing
fears of allout war orar and BBC News
Beirut well these ongoing attacks have
stunned people in Lebanon and caused
widespread fear our security
correspondent Gordon Carrera has been
looking at this new form of
technological Warfare and he's with me
now nor Gordon these have been
extraordinary attacks taking
Communications devices people carry
around and turning them into weapons to
be used against them today handheld
radios walkie-talkies were exploding
suddenly in Lebanon this was what was
left of one of them it follows yesterday
afternoon when thousands were injured by
small explosions in people's hands and
Pockets this was the culprit a pager
which can receive text messages pages
and walkie-talkies are Old School
Technology but something Hezbollah
turned to recently because it feared its
mobile phones could be
tracked this map details the location of
injuries sustained in yesterday's attack
the vast majority in the capital Beirut
but how was it done today Washington
said it didn't know uh the United States
uh did not know about uh nor was it
involved in uh these incidents and we're
still Gathering uh the information and
Gathering the facts so what do we know
if we look at the debris of this pager
you can see part of a brand name here
it's gold Apollo now now that's a
company based all the way over here in
Taiwan the owners today said they'd not
made the pages involved though instead
they had licens making them to another
company called BAC Consulting now BAC
Consulting is based in The Bu Budapest
the capital of Hungary and the BBC's
Nick Thorp went to visit
today this is the registered address of
BAC Consulting here in Budapest and in
fact there's very little sign that
they're based here at all just a a piece
of paper with their name alongside 12
other company names behind the geraniums
very few people have been coming in and
out of this building all day no one
seems to know anything about this
company at all so this is debris left
from a pager after it exploded so Israel
looks to have intercepted the supply
this year of thousands of pages to
Hezbollah and here
tiny mounts of high explosive inside a
signal was then sent which meant 5
seconds after a pag of buzzed to say
there was a message it blew up something
similar may have happened with the
radios today supposedly Japanese made
they also arrived a few months ago but
why now one theory is that Israel's spy
agency Mossad had put in place the
capability to be used in the event of an
allout conflict in neighboring Lebanon
but has B became suspicious about the
pages and so mosad decided it was a case
of use it or lose it triggering first
the pages and then today the radios if
that's right then it's not quite clear
whether there is a wider plan behind
launching the attack it has sewn
confusion and fear and inflicted many
injuries but it may also spark a
response Sophie Gordon thank you well
our International editor Jeremy Bowen is
with me now it's almost exactly a year
since the October the 7th attacks how
dangerous a moment is this for the
Middle East I'd say really dangerous as
dangerous as any in the last Almost 12
months since those Hamas attacks which
by the way this last year has been the
most dangerous year since 1948 when
Israel fought and won for its
independence um why is it so dangerous
right now well that's because at the
moment there seems to be no possibility
of diplomacy getting through and D
escalating the situation that's because
it depends on a ceasefire in Gaza and
that isn't happening either now while
Israel has scored a really significant
tactical Victory here uh there is a
potential longer term serious strategic
downside because Israel has humiliated
its enemy in Lebanon there's no no
question about that but it doesn't get
Israel closer to its strategic aims the
things it wants to do that is to stop
the rocket fire over the border into
Israel 60,000 plus people have been
evacuated for almost a year from their
homes as a result of that they want to
go home and they want to push ESB as
well back away from the border I do not
see how these attacks get Israel closer
to that now Israel of course defends
itself self-defense against a a
terrorist organization is what it would
say uh but there are plenty of people
criticizing Israel as well for using
Force somewhat
indiscriminately as well as hitting
military targets those Hezbollah
Fighters also hitting members of their
family Killing Children Killing
bystanders in markets uh so Israel under
pressure with that and one more thing as
well uh the UN General Assembly is
sitting at the moment in New York and
there was a big vote today uh and by a
vote of 123 to4 with 43 abstentions uh
the general assembly supported a
Palestinian resolution saying that
Israel must end its unlawful presence in
the occupied territories within a year
it's non-binding but it shows just how
isolated the Israelis are